# Object Oriented Programming 1
OOP is one of many programming concepts that are intimidating to approach.  Googling 'OOP' will turn up some pretty incomprehensible langue.  Take a look through the first sentence of Wikipedia's entry on OOP:
>  Object-oriented programming (OOP) is a programming paradigm based on the concept of "objects", which may contain data, in the form of fields, often known as attributes; and code, in the form of procedures, often known as methods. 

Not very helpful unless you've already got an understanding of data, programming, and programming languages.

So what is Object Oriented Programming in simpler terms?  
We'll start with a better question ...
___
### Why OOP?
Object Oriented Programming is one of many paradigms that has grown to address the need for us to understand and generate algorithms.  Algorithms (or programs) are by their nature very abstract, and by the time they're actually being executed they're a string of 1's and 0's no matter what paradigm you use.  Somewhere between us wanting something to happen and the computer carrying out the task, there needs to be a middle ground we both understand. That middle ground is programming languages and programming paradigms.  

**Programming Languages**
From the computer's side we have programming languages.  A programming language is designed from the bottom up to communicate with your computer - to compile to machine code and be executed.  At one conceptual end of a programming language is machine code, at the other is human-decipherable syntax.  JS for example. 
(For more on this topic, see our lesson on [computers and programming languages](https://github.com/jankeLearning/content-md/blob/master/dev-knowledge/02-programming-languages.md).)

**Programming Paradigms**
From the human's side we have developed paradigms that rephrase algorithms into something we can begin to grasp with our intuitions.  

Intuitions are created when we internalize the rules by which some system operates.  Humans have enormous capacity for intuition; you can ride bikes and drive cars without thinking, you can talk without planning every word, you can guess what others are thinking or feeling.  Unfortunatly for you there is very little in life that works anything like coding, so its rare to have strong intuitions for coding.  Some rare people just do have the right intuition, don't worry about them.  Every other good programmer has developed their intuition for programming by spending enough focused time to allow their brains to build an intuition. 

Programming paradigms emerged to address this issue.  By thinking of algorithms as 'like x' you can understand them more effectively.  There are many paradigms out there, and each one has a host of programming languages that support their way of thinking: HTML fits a _declarative_ paradigm, Java supports OOP, Haskal supports _functional programming_, Cat supports _concatinative programming_, ... The list is [nearly endless](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_programming_languages) and each one encourages programmers to think slightly differently. The best strategy depends on the person, the machine, and the need.

JavaScript is a strange mutt, it natively supports much of what is needed for the most popular paradigms.  What it doesn't support natively, someone has probably written a library to implement.  As a student this puts you in a tricky position; You'll have to be extra diligent or you could slip very easily into very bad habits. With power comes responsibility. 

**OOP as a First Paradigm**
OOP is a great paradigm for first learning to program because it is the closest to what we have learned in our regular lives.  From life you're used to dealing with self-contained items, early everything is a self-contained item.  So why not build our programs from self-contained items?  
___
### What is OOP ?

You're here to build apps, so let's use that as a starting point.

Here's how we've defined apps:
> Application = Data + Interaction

The OOP approach says (roughly) this:
> Design your app around your data, and provide your data with the interactions it needs.

The result is something almost intuitive:
```javascript
var app = {
    db: {},
    next_id: 0,
    create: function(newThing) {
        this.db[this.next_id] = newThing;
        this.next_id ++;
    },
    read: function(ID) {
        return // item with that id from this.db
    },
    update: function(ID, new_values_array) {
        // update this.db[id]'s values
    },
    delete: function(ID) {
        delete this.db[ID]
    }
};
```

The app object in this example constitutes an entire application.  
It has two properties: db, next_id.  The data is stored in db and is the app's raison d'être, everything else is designed to support user's interactions with db's contents. 
The syntax for JS methods also supports this data-centric view of an object.  To call a method, you must first write the object it belongs to -> app.create().  Within a method, the syntax also forces you to 'speak' in terms of the object's data -> this.db.

So there you have it.  OOP is approaching programming with the idea that an app is **data bundled with functionality**.
___
### Resources 






































